Title: Ballad of the Schooner "Eclipse"

**John Dengate**

John Bingle's schooner lay close hauled by river Hunter's shoals,

And on her deck the iron gang wer piling up the coals

Securely chained they yet disdained to live like carrion slaves

"We'll sail her, boys, from bondage to freedom o'er the waves."

The sails unfurled lay on the deck, the guard asleep ashore,

The six bold convicts swore an oath, to liberty they swore.

High water came and they were game as desperate men can be,

They hoist the main peak high my boys, and cast off from the quay.

A good west wind blew down the bay and famously they sped

The captain and the two crewmen trapped below were filled with dread.

But scarce three miles off Knobby's Isle a boat was lowered and though

The convicts owed them nothing, unharmed they let them go.

They toiled and starved in New South Wales, they hewed the Hunter's coals

The cruel cat's nine ugly tails could not subdue their souls

They raised a cry which you and I to emulate must strive

They swapped their chains for freedom in Eighteen Twenty Five.

A third song from the Singabout reprint.  Published with the following note from John Dengate:

In 1825 John Bingle's schooner Eclipse was being loaded at Newcastle
with a cargo of coal for Sydney.  Six heavily ironed convicts were
engaged in the work.  An armed guard watched from the wharf while
the schooner's captain and two crew members were breakfasting below
decks.  At a given signal the convicts carried out a daring piece
of teamwork.  They moved with great swiftness considering their
irons.  One slammed the companion hatch, another cast off the
schooner's moorings and the others laboured to get the mainpeak aloft.
A friendly westerly swept them out of the harbour past Knobby's
Island and out to sea.  Three miles offshore a boat was lowered and
the three sailors rowed back to shore, embarrassed but quite unharmed.
The authorities never heard of the schooner agina, and it is
assumed that the daring six made good their escape.  The story
reminded me of the ballads of the Catalpa and the Cyprus Brig, both
convict escape sagas, so I wrote this song to the air of the Irish rebel
song, Who Fears to Speak of '98.

The illustration to this post is a drawing of Nobby's Island off Newcastle.