Title: Bill From Erskineville

By John Dengate

I'm pleased to meet you, my name's Bill,

I'm working in a factory in Erskinville.

You have to crawl and conditions are a crime

But you get a few dollars worth of overtime.

Hooray, ain't life grand;

I'm saving the deposit on a block of land.

I met a young fellow selling real estate -

He's running from the coppers in another state.

And he's the friend of a generous gent

Who's lending money at twenty percent.

Hooray, life's a lark;

I'm swimmin' in the water with a finance shark.

I had a couple of dollars on a short-priced horse

Running in a welter on the Rosehill course

But too much weight and too little pace

And the bugger finished twelfth in a twelve-horse race.

Hooray, faithful nag;

Ferryin' the money to the bookie's bag.

I had a little flutter on the poker machines

And I won a dollar forty when it paid three Queens,

So I chases the aces around the wheels

Now I can't afford the money for to pay for meals.

Hooray, feed the slot;

Haul upon the handle till you lose the lot.

Lottery tickets have me up shit creek;

I was twenty off a five-dollar prize last week.

The tyres on my car are all worn through

And the registration's overdue.

Hooray, hip-hurrah

For a worn-out, second-hand Holden car.

I said to my wife, "We've reached the stage

Where we cannot manage on a single wage."

Now she pulls beer in the pub saloon

And the kids run wild in the afternoon.

Hooray, name your brand,

I'm drinkin' the deposit for a block of land.

I'm pleased to meet you, my name's Bill

I'm working in a factory in Erskineville

Used with the kind permission of the author.
John recalls writing this song in 1972 or 1973, when it won a
song-writing competition run by the Newcastle Trades and Labour Council.
A well-known identity on the Australian folk scene, John continues to
write and to busk around Sydney.  The National Library of Australia
holds some great recordings of both his songs and biographical
interviews (link).  I learnt this one from the singing of Glen Donald.