Title: Past Carin'

Words: Henry Lawson
Music: Steve Ashley

Now up and down the siding brown

The great black crows are flyin',

And down below the spur, I know,

Another `milker's' dyin';

The crops have withered from the ground,

The tank's clay bed is glarin',

But from my heart no tear nor sound,

For I have gone past carin' —

Past worryin' or carin',

Past feelin' aught or carin';

But from my heart no tear nor sound,

For I have gone past carin'.

Through Death and Trouble, turn about,

Through hopeless desolation,

Through flood and fever, fire and drought,

And slavery and starvation;

Through childbirth, sickness, hurt, and blight,

And nervousness an' scarin',

Through bein' left alone at night,

I've got to be past carin'.

Past botherin' or carin',

Past feelin' and past carin';

Through city cheats and neighbours' spite,

I've come to be past carin'.

Our first child took, in days like these,

A cruel week in dyin',

All day upon her father's knees,

Or on my poor breast lyin';

The tears we shed — the prayers we said

Were awful, wild — despairin'!

I've pulled three through, and buried two

Since then — and I'm past carin'.

I've grown to be past carin',

Past worryin' and wearin';

I've pulled three through and buried two

Since then, and I'm past carin'.

'Twas ten years first, then came the worst,

All for a dusty clearin',

I thought, I thought my heart would burst

When first my man went shearin';

He's drovin' in the great North-west,

I don't know how he's farin';

For I, the one that loved him best,

Have grown to be past carin'.

I've grown to be past carin'

Past lookin' for or carin';

The girl that waited long ago,

Has lived to be past carin'.

My eyes are dry, I cannot cry,

I've got no heart for breakin',

But where it was in days gone by,

A dull and empty achin'.

My last boy ran away from me,

I know my temper's wearin',

But now I only wish to be

Beyond all signs of carin'.

Past wearyin' or carin',

Past feelin' and despairin';

And now I only wish to be

Beyond all signs of carin'.

I first heard this song in the mid-80's being performed by Lonnie Martin as part of the La Boite production of The Kelly Dance, a play by John Romeril, in Brisbane.

The words were first published in the Australian Magazine, Sydney, 30th May, 1899.

While at first I was unclear as to the origin of the tune (mistakenly
believing like many others that it originated from either Mara Keik or
Phyl Lobl) the writer of the tune has been in touch.  Steve Ashley wrote
this tune for the Bushwackers after they met up in Rotterdam back in
the late seventies, along with three other Lawson settings (Freedom On The Wallaby, Old Joe Swallow and Faces In The Street), all of which can be found in the Second Bushwackers Songbook.