Title: Sergeant Small

Tex Morton, Brad Tate, Terry Boylan

went broke in western Queensland in Nineteen Thirty One

Nobody would employ me so my swag carrying begun

I came down into Charleville through all the western towns

I was on my way to Roma destination Darling Downs

My pants were getting ragged my boots were getting thin

But when I stopped at Mitchell a goods train shunted in

I heard the whistle blowing and looking out could see

She was on her way to Roma it was quite plain to me

CHORUS:

I wish I was about twenty stone only seven feet tall

I'd go back to western Queensland and beat up Sergeant Small

Now as I sat and watched her inspiration's seed was sown

I remembered the Government slogan: Here's the railway that you own

By this time the sun was setting and the night was getting nigh

So I gathered my belongings and took her on the fly

When we got into Roma I kept my head down low

I heard a voice say "Any room Mate?" I answered "Plenty Bo"

"Come out of there my noble man" came the voice of Sergeant Small

"I have trapped you very nicely - you've ridden for a fall"

The judge was very kind to me he gave me thirty days

Saying "Maybe this will help to cure your rattler jumping ways"

So if you're down and outback boys I'll tell you what I think

Stay off those Queensland goods trains they're a short cut to the clink

These notes from the Australian Folk and Bush Music and Musicians:

Sergeant Small aka Down and Outback
may not be so well known.  Sergeant Small was a well-known police
officer stationed at Roma in south-west Queensland.  In the depression
years, many men on the dole were obliged to travel the country searching
for work as they had to collect their dole from different locations.
With virtually no money, there were really only two ways to effect this
travel - by walking or jumping a freight train.  The railways tended to
resent the second option and there was a constant effort by both the
state police and the railway police to deter these free travelling
swagmen or bagmen as they were sometimes called.  Their usual technique
was to intermittently board and comprehensively search trains.
Sometimes the swagmen were arrested and other times they would be forced
off the train in remote areas.

Sergeant Small developed a
cunning approach.  He would kit himself out as a bagman trying to find
some space on a goods train for himself and he'd surreptitiously
approach each carriage and ask if there was any room inside and many a
concealed bagman would answer back and thus give himself up.

In 1938, the very talented New Zealand country and western singer then in Australia, Tex Morton,
decided to write a song about Sergeant Small and it got a lot of
airplay.  Unfortunately, Sergeant Small took exception to this and his
threats to sue resulted in the song being withdrawn from both broadcast
and sale.  Later, one Brad Tate amalgamated Tex's song with a poem with a
similar theme by a Terry Boylan to produce, intentionally or otherwise,
a much more folky feel and I suspect that the German Language version
here arises out of the later version.

Sergeant Small has also
been performed by others including the Irish group Patrick Street in "On
the Fly" and the Australian rock group Weddings Parties Anything.

Here is the orginal from Tex Morton: