Title: Stirling-O

**Unknown**

No lark in transport rides the sky

Nor leaves with early plaintive cry

But I must bid my last goodbye

My last fairwell to Stirling O

Though far away my heart's with you

Those happy hours from us they flew

And I must bid a sad adieu

A last fairwell to Stirling O

My comrades all now grieve for me

And one request I'll ask of ye

My faithful dog ye'll keep for me

When I am far from Stirling O

No more I'll wander through the glen

Or rob the roost of the pheasant hen

Nor chase the rabbit to its den

When I am far from Stirling O

Now fare you well my Jeannie dear

I hope you'll find another dear

And shed ye no a bitter tear

When I am far from Stirling O

So fare you well for I am bound

For twenty years to Van Diemen's Land

Think of me and what I've done

When I am far from Stirling O

The following notes are from the liner note for this song by Edgar
Waters from Gary Shearston's CD re-release of earlier recordings Here and There: Now and Then:

One great Scots poet, Robert Burns, collected Scots folk songs,
published them (often after considerable rewriting) and wrote songs of
his own that were more or less in folk song style. Dozens of lesser
poets also wrote songs more or less in the style of Scots folk song, and
some of them actually passed into oral tradition. This seems to be such
a song. In the 1950s the poet John Manifold gathered around him in
Brisbane a group of people who were interested in performing folk music
and songs. One of them was a Scots migrant. Nan Shanko. This is a song
she carried with her from her native land.

The tune used here is from Mark Gregory's Australian Folk Songs site, where it is published with the following note:

Stirling O, Collected by Stan Arthur from Bob Gallagher, Brisbane
1958. Edgar Waters in his notes to the song in Tradition (April 1967)
writes: "The number of convicts transported from Scotland to Australia
was relatively small, but there are a good many Scottish songs about
transportation. The present song seems to be still fairly common in oral
tradition in Scotland. In recent years it has been recorded several
times from oral tradition in Australia, but so far as I know always from
Scottish migrants".