Title: Struggle in The West

Words:  Unknown

Tune:  Traditional (Rosin the Bow)

There's a struggle going on in the West boys

A battle for Freedom and Right

Though Tyranny's raising his crest boys

We'll conquer or die in the fight

They may take from the hands that are free

The ballot that backs up his claim

May land us in prison but see boys

They never shall win at the game

CHORUS:

There's a struggle going on in the West boys

A battle for Freedom and Right

Though Tyranny's raising his crest boys

We'll conquer or die in the fight

They have sent to the plains of the West boys

The Gatling the Nordenfeldt too

It seems that we must be suppressed boys

Says Price "Lay them out and fire low"

The soldiers and troopers are here

To shoot down the men of their class

Grim heroes with rifle and spear boys

To charge on a weaponless mass

There are woolsheds and grass in the West boys

There's fences and sheep on the plain

Would stranger to see us have guessed boys

They've sprung from our labour and pain?

Can they garrison the plains with police?

Can they garrison the back tracks with their troops?

Can they watch the slow growth of the fleece boys?

They are mad! They are fools! They are dupes!

They are sending the scabs to the West boys

At the sheds they are dumping them down

For the man that the squatter likes best boys

Is the loafer and duffer from town

Surrounded by troops and police

Let them watch till the squatters go lame

If they wait till we're suing for peace boys

They never shall win at the game

So be true to yourself in the West boys

Be staunch to your mates and your class

The 'Brag' of the squatters we'll test boys

By the power of the Union 'Hold Fast'

Let them hunt up the scum of the South

Bring outcasts too wretched to name

We'll give it to them straight from our mouths boys

They never shall win at the game

Notes and lyrics from Mark Gregory's Australian Folk Songs site:

This song appeared in the Brisbane
Worker (editor William Lane) on 18th April 1891 at the height of the
Shearers' Strike. It was brought to the attention of the Australian folk
movement by Len Fox (who was then the editor of Common Cause the Miners
union paper) The reference to Price in the song is Colonel Tom Price
who is remembered in union history because of his order to his troops at
a union demonstration in Melbourne in September 1890 "Fire low, and lay
them out". Tune is 'Rosin the Bow'

The illustration to this post is from Queensland Pictures via bonzle.com:

Townsville Mounted Infantry
soldiers escorting a wagon train of blackleg workers to Hughenden
Station during the Shearers strike. In late March and early April about
sixty blacklegs were recruited at Townsville for Hughenden station. On
25 March 121 officers and men of the Townsville Mounted Infantry were
called out to protect them. (Information taken from: S. Svensen, The
Shearers' war : the story of the 1891 shearers' strike, 1989)