Title: The Morning of the Fray/Eugowra Rocks

Trad?/McAlister

It's all about bold Frank Gardiner with the devil in his eye

He said "We've work before us lads we've got to do or die

So blacken up your faces before the dead of night

And its over by Eugowra Rocks we'll either fall or fight"

Chorus

You can sing of Johnny Gilbert Dan Morgan and Ben Hall

But the bold and reckless Gardiner he's the boy to beat them all

We'll stop the Orange escort with powder and with ball

We'll shoot the coach to pieces and we'll down the peelers all

We'll lift the diggers' money we'll collar all their gold

So mind your guns are killers now my comrades true and bold

So now off go the rifles the battle has begun

The escort started running boys all in the setting sun

The robbers seized their plunder so saucy and so bold

And they're riding from Eugowra Rocks encumbered with their gold

And as with savage laughter they left that fatal place

They cried "We've struck bonanza boys we've won the steeplechase!"

And Gardiner their leader he shouted a loud "Hooray

I think we've made our fortunes at Eugowra Rocks today"

Recorded by AL Lloyd.  Originally published in "Old Pioneering Days in the Sunny South (1907), a limited 750 copy edition by Charles MacAlister, under the title The Morning of the Fray

From the Australian Dictionary of Biography:

GARDINER (CHRISTIE), FRANCIS (1830-1903?), bushranger, was born in
Scotland, son of Charles Christie and his wife Jane, née Whittle. The
family reached Sydney in the James in 1834 and settled at Boro near
Goulburn. He went to Victoria and in October 1850 as Francis Christie
was sentenced to five years' hard labour at Geelong for horse stealing.
Next March he escaped from Pentridge gaol and returned to New South
Wales. In March 1854 he was convicted as Francis Clarke at Goulburn on
two charges of horse stealing and imprisoned on Cockatoo Island. In
December 1859 he was given a ticket-of-leave for the Carcoar district,
but broke parole and went south and by the end of 1860 as Frank Gardiner
he had a butchery at Lambing Flat but skipped bail. Known as 'The
Darkie', he began highway robbery on the Cowra Road. In July 1861 at a
sly grog shop near Oberon he shot and wounded Sergeant John Middleton;
Trooper Hosie was also wounded although allegedly bribed to let Gardiner
escape.

Gardiner joined up with Johnny Piesley; after ranging the old Lachlan
Road they moved to the Weddin Mountains and were joined by John Gilbert,
Ben Hall and others. The police under Sir Frederick Pottinger could not
catch the gang for it moved too rapidly aided by 'bush telegraphs'.

On 15 June 1862 at the Coonbong Rock near Eugowra Gardiner's gang held
up the gold escort and got away with £14,000. Soon afterwards Gardiner,
while visiting his mistress Kate, wife of John Brown of Wheogo, narrowly
escaped from Pottinger. With her he went to Queensland where as Mr and
Mrs Frank Christie they ran a store and shanty at Apis Creek near
Rockhampton. In February 1864 he was traced by the New South Wales
police and arrested. Tried for wounding Sergeant Middleton with intent
to kill, he was acquitted by the jury but found guilty in July on two
non-capital charges. Chief Justice (Sir) Alfred Stephen, gave him a
cumulative sentence of thirty-two years' hard labour. In 1872 William
Bede Dalley, who had defended Gardiner, organized petitions to the
governor to use his prerogative of mercy. Sir Hercules Robinson decided
that Gardiner had been harshly sentenced and in 1874 released him
subject to his exile. This decision provoked a public controversy with
petitions, counter-petitions and violent debates in the Legislative
Assembly, and led to the fall of Parkes's government.

On 27 July Gardiner embarked for Hong Kong and by February 1875 was in
San Francisco where he ran the Twilight Saloon. The press continued to
note his activities, including his death in Colorado about 1903, but
most reports were unsubstantiated.