Title: The wreck of the Dandenong

Unknown

Oh, wild and furious blew the blast
And the clouds were hanging round
When the Dandenong from Melbourne sailed
For Newcastle port was bound
With eighty-three poor souls on board
Through the storm she cleaved her way
And it's sad to relate of the terrible fate
'Twas just off Jervis Bay

While steaming through the briny waves
Her propelling shaft gave way
And the waters they came pressing in
Which filled them with dismay
All hands on board did all they could
Till at length all hope was gone
And they hoisted a signal of distress
On board of the Dandenong

It was not long until a barque
A brisk and lively crew
Came bearing down and the Captain said
"We'll see what we can do!"
Came bearing down with might and main
In spite of wind or wave
They did all they could as Christians would
Those precious lives to save

While some in boats they tried to reach
That kind and friendly barque
And numbers of their lives were saved
And then the night came on pitch dark
What mortal man then could do more
When the storm increased on strong
And the rest now sleep in the briny deep
Along with the Dandenong.

From John Meredith's papers in the National Library of Australia with the note:

Collected from Mrs Byrnes, late of Spring Hill.  Recorded by John Meredith 1954.

This from the The Argus, 14th September 1876 :

“TOTAL LOSS OF THE S. S. DANDENONG.

“UPWARDS OF FIFTY LIVES LOST.

“The
heavy southerly gale which raged with almost hurricane force along the
east coast on Sunday has been most disastrous to the shipping which
encountered it, and it is probable that we have not yet heard the full
result of the damage done. It was only yesterday we had to record the
great loss suffered by the racing community in the death of several
valuable racehorses aboard the A.S.N. Co.’s steamer City of Melbourne,
which ran into the gale, and now we have intelligence of the total loss
of the s.s. Dandenong, belonging to Captain W. Howard Smith, which left
here on Friday last with a full complement of passengers for Sydney. In
addition to the loss of the vessel, it was also announced that at least
17 persons had been drowned, and it was feared that 40 more had met with
a like fate. At first the news was disbelieved, but as telegram after
telegram was received, the sceptics were forced to believe. The first
announcement was made by the posting outside The Argus office of the
following telegram from our Sydney correspondent : -

“ ‘Sydney, Wednesday.

“
‘The Dandenong has broken her shaft, and was full of water, off Jervis
Bay. A barque took off 28 persons; 17 were drowned, and 40 were still on
board the Dandenong when the barque had to run for it. The Dandenong
has not since been heard of, and it is supposed that she has foundered.’

“About
the same time a telegram was received by Messrs. W. Howard Smith and
Co., and posted at their office, Market-street : - ‘Newcastle,
Wednesday. - Barque Albert William arrived here with 28 passengers and
12 crew of the Dandenong. The chief officer of the Dandenong reports
that the shaft broke, and the ship was disabled off Jervis Bay. She was
last seen at half-past 8 on Monday night. The chief and second officers
are saved, but the captain and about 40 passengers and crew are supposed
to be lost. The crew go on board the Cheviot as passengers to Sydney
to-night.’

“Telegrams kept coming through in rapid succession,
and from these it appears that the s.s. Dandenong, under the command of
Captain J. Irwin, left Melbourne on Friday afternoon on her usual voyage
to Sydney and Newcastle. In addition to her crew of 28 men, she had 27
passengers in the saloon and 28 in the steerage. She had a fine
northerly wind down the bay, and it continued so until 5 p.m. on
Saturday afternoon, when it suddenly chopped round to the eastward, and
rapidly increased in violence until it was blowing a gale, and was
gradually veering to the south, causing a nasty cross sea to run. The
wind increased in violence during Sunday and the ship laboured heavily,
shipping great quantities of water, but she was making good progress,
and no fears were entertained of her not weathering the gale, which was
now blowing with hurricane force. At 1 a.m. on Monday, however, when she
was off Cape St. George, the headland forming Jervis Bay, the engines
suddenly stopped, and almost immediately after the chief engineer
reported to the captain - who had never left the deck throughout the
gale - that the engines had broken down. Captain Irwin at once hauled
his ship to the wind on the starboard tack, and attempted to stand off
the land to the eastward. The gale still increased in violence, and it
was impossible to show a rag of sail to keep her to the wind, and she
consequently laboured heavily in the trough of the sea. To add to the
danger the ship began to make water rapidly, and it was then discovered
that the shaft of the screw had snapped in two, and had by some means
damaged the hull in the after compartment. The pumps were promptly
manned, the passengers and crew working in relays, while a party under
the chief officer attempted to stop the leak using the mattresses and
bedding from the cabins. This attempt, however, proved useless, and
then, with a view of lightening the ship, and so cause her to labour
less violently, Captain Irwin gave orders to throw overboard some of the
cargo from the main hold. The water, however, was still rapidly
increasing in the hold, and it was evident that she was fast settling
down in the water. The sea was running so high that it was but little
use launching the boats - with which the Dandenong was well supplied -
as they would most certainly have been swamped. At about 2 p.m. on
Monday a vessel hove in sight, and signals of distress having been
hoisted, she soon bore down to her assistance, and proved to be the
barque Albert William, from Wallaroo bound to Newcastle with copper ore.
With great difficulty and danger one of the Dandenong’s boats was
lowered, which, under the charge of Mr. Lawson, the chief officer, took
several of the passengers on board, and proceeded alongside the barque.
As thet neared her, however, they got into the trough of the sea, and
the ship striking her heavily at once swamped her, and only the chief
officer, two of the crew, and a child were saved. Another boat was
lowered from the steamer, and this successfully placed its cargo of
passengers on board the barque, but when attempting to complete a second
trip she was smashed alongside, and only two of those on board of her
were rescued. A third boat was lowered from the Dandenong, and in charge
of Mr. M’Ewan, the second officer, assayed the difficult journey, but
on going alongside the barque she met with the same fate, but most of
those in her succeeded in saving their lives. By this time darkness was
setting in, and it became impossible to tranship nay more persons until
daylight. The captain of the Albert William, however, promised to keep
by her until morning and then attempt to take off the 40 souls remaining
on board. He had, however, but little hopes that she would live through
the night, as the gale showed no signs of abating, and she was
labouring so heavily that he expected her to founder instantly. A good
look-out was kept for her during the first watch, but between 8 and 9
o’clock the steamer’s lights suddenly disappeared, and it was then
supposed she had gone to the bottom. The Albert William remained hove-to
all night, but when daylight came, there was nothing to be seen of the
Dandenong, and she stood away on her course for Newcastle. Although she
had to pass Sydney Heads on her way, for some unknown reason, the
captain contented himself with merely showing his number, and gave no
notice of the unfortunate occurrence. Had this been done the disaster
would have been known at least 12 hours earlier, and steamers could have
been promptly sent from Sydney to the scene of the wreck, in the hopes
of yet finding some trace of the unfortunate vessel.

“As soon as
the disaster became known, the New South Wales Government despatched the
Government steamer Thetis to the scene of the wreck, and also
telegraphed to Wollongong, Kiama, Terrara, Marura, and Jervis Bay to
send out any assistance available. Commodore Hoskins, commanding the
Australian squadron, also gave instructions to H.M.S. Sappho to proceed
to the spot and search for the wreck. The steamers Yarra Yarra, from
Sydney, and Tasmania, from Wollongong, also proceeded on the same errand
during the day; while the manager of the Bulli Coal Company sent
similar instructions to despatch their steamer Bulli from Bulli.

“As
soon as the first intimation of the disaster was received in Melbourne
Mr. Kerford communicated with the Commissioner of Trade and Customs in
order to ascertain whether it was advisable to send away the Victoria.
Mr. Anderson, however, pointed out that the scene of the wreck was only
about 90 miles from Sydney, and that it would take 48 hours before the
Victoria could reach the spot. The New South Wales Government were,
however, communicated with, and an offer was at once made to send the
Victoria if it was considered necessary. The Premier of New South Wales
promptly replied, thanking Sir James M’Culloch for his offer, but
declining it on the ground that plenty of steamers were available in
Sydney.

“It is stated that when the morning broke on the Albert
William - and nothing was in sight it was presumed that the Dandenong
had found a watery grave - the scenes on board were most heartrending.
Parents had been separated from their children, and in one case a little
child had lost father, mother, brothers, and sister, and she alone was
the surviving one out of a family of eight.

“Mr. M’Ewan, the
second officer of the Dandenong, appears to bear a somewhat charmed
life, as he was the third officer of the ill-fated ship British Admiral,
that was lost on King’s Island in 1873, when nearly all the crew and
passengers were drowned. In addition to the valuable general cargo the
Dandenong had on board, she was also carrying 160 high-class stud sheep,
which had been purchased by New South Wales and Riverina buyers at the
recent annual ram sales held by Messrs. Powers, Rutherford, and Co., and
Messrs. Ettershank, Eaglestone, and Co.

“The Dandenong was
well-known as a regular trader between this port and Sydney, and was
purchased at home by the owner, Captain W. Howard Smith, who brought her
out here. She was a staunch and strongly constructed iron screw
steamer, of 743 tons, builder’s measurement, and was built in 1867 at
Palmer’s Ironworks, Jarrow-on-Tyne, the same yard from which were
launched the Barrabool and Queensland. She was of the following
dimensions : - Length, 291 feet; beam, 28ft. 2in.; and depth of hold,
15ft. 7in.; and her hull was in three water tight compartments. The
Dandenong arrived here early in January, 1868, to run in conjunction
with the You Yangs to Sydney and Newcastle, and during her career on the
coast she proved herself a very handy vessel, and di good service for
her owner. She had made 206 trips, and was on her 207th when this
disaster occurred. Her engines were of 90-horse power nominal, and she
was fitted up on deck with steam appliances for the rapid discharge and
taking in of cargo. Like the rest of the boats of her line, she was kept
in the most efficient order, and her passenger accommodation had been
altered and improved some time ago. The value placed upon her by the
owner is L20,000, but she is only covered by insurance to the extent of
L14,000. The insurances are with the Adelaide Marine and the Southern,
but these companies, it is understood, have divided the risk with other
offices.

“The following is a list of the passengers who left here
for Sydney in the Dandenong : - Saloon. - Mrs. Whitworth. Mrs. Brodie,
Mrs. M’Connachy, Mrs. Wakefield, Miss E. Smith, Miss Hilliard, Miss E.
Murray, Miss M. Murray, Miss Agnes Wakefield, Miss Annie Wakefield, Miss
Fitzsimmons, Miss Green, Sister St. Joseph, Messrs. Winship, Ash, G.
Chambers, M’Dougall, Wakefield, T. J. Malley, H. H. Steele, Wright, W.
Murray, Hartley, Master Whitworth, and Masters J. Wakefield, T.
Wakefield, and F. Wakefield. Steerage. - Mrs. Blair, Mrs. Grey, Mrs.
Ward, Mrs. M. Brown, and Mrs. Edmonds and two children, Messrs. Dare,
Ferguson, Davis, Blair, J. M’Ghee, Payne, M’Grath, Golding, W. Barter,
M’Dougall, J. Osborn, Honey, E. Walter, R. Walter, Matthews, J. Murray,
M. Brown, and W. Langston.

“The following is the list of
passengers saved : - Saloon. - Captain M’Dougall, Mr. F. Ash, Mr. J.
Hartley, J. Whitworth, Mr. G. Chambers, Sister St. Joseph, Miss E.
Murray, Miss Mary Murray, Miss Anne Green, Miss Mary Fitzsimmons, Miss
Agnes Wakefield, Miss E. Smith. Steerage. - Mr. E. Walters, Mr. R.
Walters, Mr. Samuel Golding, Mr. Wm. Blair, Mr. J. Osborn, Mr. J. Honey,
Mr. J. M’Grath, Mrs. M. Brown, Mrs. Blair and child, Mrs. Edmonds and
two children, and Mrs. Ward. The following is a list of the crew on
board : - J. Irwin, captain; - Lawson, chief officer; C. M’Ewan, second
mate; Jas. Forger, chief engineer; John Dykes, second engineer; Robert
Hooks, chief steward; Fred. Jewell, second steward; John Wilson,
officer’s boy; Thos. Hollson, fore cabin steward; Anna Saul, stewardess;
John Wilson, cook; Wm. Young, lamp trimmer; David Mord, Jas. Anderson,
John Bruhn, Josh de Franze, John Ekland, Charles Christie, Lawrence
Williams, Charles Lingoist, - Alfred, and - Humphreys, able seamen;
Jeremiah Bunting, Jogn Johnson, Wm. Lloyd, and Martin Dwyer, firemen;
George Habbinder, Wm. Edbrooke, and Francis Hay, trimmers.

“The
following are the members of the crew saved. Mr. Lawson, chief officer;
Mr. C. M’Ewan, second officer; Mr. John Dykes, second engineer; Anna
Saul, stewardess; James Anderson, John Bruhn, John Ekland, Charles
Christie, Charles Lingoist, - Alfred, - Humphreys, able seamen; and
George Habbinder, trimmer.

“Captain M’Dougall, one of the
passengers saved, has had a recent experience of shipwreck, as he was
master of the Water Lily that was lost a few months since at Port
MacDonnell, S.A. Mr. Wakefield, who has been lost with his wife and his
family, is a relation of the accountant of the Melbourne and Hobson’s
Bay Railway Company; and Mrs. M’Connachy, who has also been lost, is the
wife of the captain of the barque Moneta, which recently arrived here
from New York, and was proceeding to Sydney to join her husband. As the
Moneta had not yet arrived, it will be sad news for the captain when he
reaches port to learn the death of his wife.

“There is still a
possibility - though but a slight one - that some more of the passengers
and crew have been saved by means of the other boats, but the search
which is being made will soon decide the matter.

“Much sympathy
is felt for Mr. Howard Smith, the owner of the Dandenong, whose recent
losses in connexion with the collision between the Queensland and
Barrabool add weight to this fresh disaster.

More contemporary newspaper reports can be found here.