Title: The Royal Charter

**Unknown**

Good people all, attend, I pray,

Now I'll relate a sad calamity,

Of a dreadful shipwreck near Belmore Town

Of the Royal Charter while homeward bound.

From fair Australia with a pleasant gale

The Royal Charter for old England sailed

With a human cargo, her fate did rule

We ne'er but one reached Liverpool.

On Tuesday morning, I'm grieved to say,

Our fore and mainmast were cut away,

When our mizzen-top fell with a heavy crush,

And in the raging sea our ship did dash.

Brave Captain Taylor with his men so brave

Made all their efforts the ship to save

But notwithstanding all they could do

The Royal Charter she broke in two.

Now broadside on she drove on shore.

The lightning flashed and the sea did roar,

Brave Captain Taylor drowned it is true,

With ninety-seven of his gallant crew.

Now the total number that lost their lives

Was four hundred and fifty-five;

Of women and child we are assured

Not one escaped out of all on board.

Off the riggings lost their names I'll tell;

Was Williams, Thomson and James Bell,

There was Elfie and Philips and W.Jones

There was another, but his name's unknown.

And drowned in agony and anguish wild

The mother cried, "Do save my child!"

And the father strived in vain -

They were all engulfed in the raging main.

O God, 'tis frightful to think what crowds

Of drowned passengers clung to the shrouds

To hear their shrieks on the stormy sea,

As from the ship they were washed away.

So may the Lord look down on the deep distress

Of the widowed mothers and fatherless

Likewise the parents of the seamen brave

Who in the Royal Charter met a watery grave.

The Royal Charter was
the most prominent victim of over 200 ships wrecked in what became
known as the "Royal Charter Storm" off the Welsh coast on 26 October,
1859.

Another from Warren Fahey's Australian Folk Songs and Bush Ballads, published with the following notes:

On 25 October 1859, the Royal Charter, a combined steam and sailing
ship from Melbourne bound for Liverpool, was lost off Moelfre on the
island of Anglesey, Wales....

Almost at the end of its long voyage from Melbourne to England, the
Royal Charter was carrying 452 passengers and crew and gold from the
Australian goldfield valued at £320 000.

... EJ Moeran collected a ballad about the wreck from Mr JAmes Strong
at Winterton, England, in July 1915.  It was published in his
Songs Sung in Norfolk, 1923...