Title: The Answer's Ireland

John Dengate

Who gave Australia the tunes to sing, the tunes of songs so grand?
Songs to inspire, full of beauty and fire – the answer's Ireland.
Know when you sing of Jack Donahue, that he was a Dublin man
And Dennis O'Reilly is travelling still with a blackthorn in his hand.

Who raised a ruckus at Castle Hill, who there defied the crown?
'Twas the same rebel boys who in '98 'gainst odds would not lie down.
Oh, but they made Samuel Marsden fret and ruffled silver tails,
Why, the words "Croppy Pike" were enough to strike fear into New South Wales.

Who agitated at Ballarat for Joe Latrobe's death knell?
Who was it raised up the five-starred flag and damned the traps to hell?
Who was it gathered beneath that flag, where solemn oaths were sworn?
Who would not run from the redcoats' guns, upon Eureka morn?

Ned Kelly's dad was an Irish lad, the Kellys all died game.
Brave Michael Dwyer's bones are buried here, we'll not forget that name.
Who could resist Larry Foley's fist, and Foley wore the green.
Who led the anti-conscription ranks in 1917?

Today's song is in honour of St Patrick's Day.

NOTES FROM MUDCAT(contributed by "Simon"):

John
Dengate is well-known in local Irish and folk music circles for his
witty (often satirical) songs and poems, having had a lengthy history in
those areas.

For those who don't know, John ('Bold Jack')
Donohue (1806 – 1830) was a bushranger in the Sydney region until he was
shot by police. (One version of The Wild Colonial Boy uses his name.)
Dennis O'Reilly is the subject of an eponymous song by and about early
Irish settlers in Australia.The second verse refers to the involvement
in the convict uprising of 1804 of Irish transportees who had earlier
taken part in the 1798 Rising in Ireland. The latter were called
'Croppies' by their enemies
and both groups often had only pikes for weapons – just long blades attached to poles.

The
Rev. Samuel Marsden was a wealthy landowner and magistrate at
Parramatta when our Battle of Vinegar Hill took place, known and feared
as 'the Flogging Parson'.

Charles Joseph Latrobe was Governor of
Victoria during the Eureka Stockade confrontation of 1854, of which no
more should need to be said.

The reference to Michael Dwyer
(1722? – 1825) is of interest, as he was a leader of the 1798 Rising
whom the British were unable to capture until he surrendered on his own
terms. He and his family were sent to Sydney in 1806 and were received
100 acres of uncleared land in the Liverpool region. Dwyer and his wife
are buried under the Irish Monument at Waverly Cemetery, the building of
which commenced in 1898 to commemorate the Rising.

Laurence
Foley (1849 – 1917) was a professional boxer who never lost a fight and
retired at the age of 32 with sufficient prize money to open a hotel and
a boxing academy in Sydney. As far as we can determine, his only Green
credentials came from being the leader of a Catholic 'larrikin' gang in
Inner Sydney as a young man. In 1871, he fought his Protestant (Orange)
counterpart, Sandy Owens, in a street for 71 rounds before the police
intervened – Foley was considered the likely winner.
Lastly,
attempts to introduce conscription during World War I were fiercely
opposed by many groups, not least by those of Irish extraction whose
priority it was to complete the work of the 1916 Easter Rising rather
than to go to war 'for King and Country'.