Title: The Rose Bay Ferry

**Bernard Bolan**

Every morning at 8:25

Down to the Rose Bay wharf I drive

Park my Humber underneath a tree

Pop along the gangplank and then I'm free

Free says you, but how can that be?

For you always finish up at Circular Quay

So doubting Tom I shall explain

When I get on board I sing this sweet refrain

Where are we going today, Mr. Nicholson?

Where is the going to be?

Don't turn left, turn right down the harbor

And out to the open sea

Throw away your compass, right hand down

And it's out through the heads we go

So ho! let's be merry on the Rose Bay ferry

If we run out of petrol we'll row Yo Ho!

If we run out of petrol we'll row

Monday Java, Tuesday Spain

Wednesday's it's Tokyo and back again

The only trouble is, they isn't any Gents

But what do you want for 20 cents?

Off with me raincoat and me woolly vest

See the naked ladies on my chest

Today is Friday, so hold on tight

'Cause we're off to Trinidad and back tonight

Where are we going today, Mr. Nicholson?

Where is the going to be?

Don't turn left, turn right down the harbor

And out to the open sea

Pull up your anchor, pull your finger out

And wave goodbye to your home

We're off to Nantucket, so give that man a bucket

'Cause it's choppy when you're out on the foam Yo Ho!

It's choppy when you're out on the foam

Sometimes when I get up late

I only reach the jetty at half past 8

But that doesn't ruin my world-wide trip

'Cause the 8:37 is a battleship

Off on the dot with our guns on high

We mince up Manley as we pass by

If you're out of rockets, just pop upstairs

You can get 'em from the chappy who collects the fares

Where are we going today, Mr. Nicholson?

Where is the going to be?

Don't turn left, turn right down the harbor

And out to the open sea

For though we look like dudes and doctors

At heart we are men of the sea

So Ho! let's be merry on the Rose Bay ferry

Until we get to Circular Quay

We finish up at Circular Quay

From the wonderful Bernard Bolan.  In the 1970s this song reached number 1 on the charts.