Title: Anderson's Coast

**John Warner**

Now Bass Strait roars like some great mill race

And where are you, my Annie

And the same moon shines on this lonely place

As shone one day on my Annie's face

CHORUS

But Annie dear, don't wait for me

I fear I shall not return to thee

There's naught to do but endure my fate

And watch the moon

The lonely moon

Light the breakers on wild Bass Strait.

We stole a vessel and all her gear

And where are you, my Annie

And from Van Diemen's we north did steer

'Till Bass Strait's wild waves wrecked us here

A mile inland, as our course was laid

And where are you, my Annie?

We found a government stockade.

Long long deserted, but stoutly made.

And somewhere West Port Melbourne lies

And where are you, my Annie

Through swamps infested with snakes and flies

The fool who walks there, he surely dies

We hail no ships, though the time it drags

And where are you, my Annie

Our chain gang walk and government rags

All mark us out as Van Diemen's lags

We fled the lash and the chafing chain

And where are you, my Annie

We fled hard labour and brutal pain

And here we are and here remain

This wonderful song from John Warner and Margaret Walters' recording, The Pithead in the Fern.

These notes from the Cockersdale sleeve notes (via Mudcat):

Australian
singer John Warner writes evocative and beautifully poetic songs, many
drawing on Australian colonial history. Anderson's Coast concerns of a
group of convicts who escaped Van Diemen's Land in a stolen ship, only
to be wrecked by the notorious Bass Strait waves on the Gippsland coast
(in Victoria). The explorer Strzlecki and his small band stumbled out of
dense rainforest and encountered the marooned men. Strzlecki would
probably have perished had it not been for his Koori guide Charlie Tarra
and this group of convicts who led him to Anderson, a pioneer settler
who ran cattle on the South Gippsland coast. Apparently the convicts
were pardoned for their contribution to the explorer's survival.